PastTime
========

Remember your life history! Find and organize your photos and videos.

Picasa and other services are nice, but they don't organize the underlying data.

I want something that cleans up my harddrives, renaming files.

I am tempted to use Flickr, or some other online service.
But I don't trust them to survive...

I also want to be able to review the data occasionally, and add tags. And invent my own system.

Here is my current plan
-----------------------

0. compute summary stats of every file in dst directory
1. recursively scan a src directory looking for new unique media
2. copy said media to dst directory

`media` is defined to be images or movies.
I havent thought about audio yet, but I don't have much of that.

Once this is complete, we will want to start tagging.

Tagging
-------

Tagging presents two challenges:
1. acquistion of metadata from an image
2. storing metadata for an image

Acquisition will likely be a combination of scripts and user-interaction.
I had a program once that displayed random images and asked the user for tags.
Olin Works once farmed out a tagging job to 30 people. That worked well.
Other things could be using EXIF data to correct dates etc.

Storing is tricky because there are different solutions,
and I have to choose one.

The easiest to manage from a program perspective would involve a database.
However, databases are not very portable, and are centralized.
iPhoto has a photo library that steals all your photos and is not user-viewable
I don't like that personally, but perhaps it is the best way to go.

Why don't I like iPhoto? I can't browse the file-system and see usable photos.

Say I want to upload a photo to a site...
... I have to export it first using iPhoto, or `share it` from the app itself.

I would rather be able to find all my photos using the filesystem,
but maybe that is naive and old-fashioned

I experimented with randomly hashed names for photos. How did that turn out?
Do I still have those photos? Where are the tags? What happened to them?

If PastTime is going to be a monolithic system,
the iPhoto strategy may not be so bad.

But something doesn't feel right about that strategy yet.
I hate unreable names!

Picasa takes a different approach.
It stores its metadata in the containing folder for the images
and leaves them intact.

picasa.ini files everywhere! Messy!

Also, when you move a photo, you lose the information about it!

Somehow Picasa can detect file moves,
but if the picasa.ini file is deleted,
then you are out of luck (I assume)

More infomation on .picasa.ini files

It feels better not to mess with the file structure, but losing data sucks.

Could there be another way? Could the info be stored in the image itself?

EXIF tags are interesting, though some programs mess with them.

Is there any real application that solves this problem already?
Am I wasting my time by thinking about this now?

iPhoto feels close. I could slurp in all my photos,
let it detect faces and events etc,
and then export the whole thing to a separate drive and delete my library.

Feels ghetto.

Here is what I had to say about this 3 years ago
-------------------------------------------------

Imagine a device that you plug into any computer and it grabs all the photos off it.
Or a website you go to and it sends all your photos over the net
Instead of manually adding photos, you just grab them all, and then sort and label them later by viewing them in a slideshow thing.

A program could search through a computer and find all the image files, ignoring duplicates, and placing them on the drive. Then you run a labeling server that shows you images and you type people you see and places etc.

tagging

Matchin, ESP game, google image labeler

find visually similar photos?

find all the photos with a certain person or place

folders and tags are different things. tags are not hierarchical

can HTMs help classify?

face recognition like with iPhoto 09
